---
layout: post
title: "Kodi"
date: 2017-01-26
desc: "Using Kodi on Amazon Fire"
keywords: "Opensource, Media, Amazon"
categories: [Lab, FOSS]
tags: [Opensource, Kodi, xbmc]
icon: icon-python
---
# Kodi on Amazon firestick
Frankly, I don't like the name. xbmc was way cooler.

 For those, who are content with their Netflix and HBO apps , and didn't look at the opensource solution for media consumption recently, the good news is xbmc has come a long way into its reincarnation dubbed Kodi and with its latest release Jarvis. I had tried xbmc (on Windows) long back. Install was fine but I could never invest enough time to figure out the video add ons.That changed when I tried Kodi with Exodus on my Linux desktop. Still, the desktop is  not a preferred place of consumption for me. I love to catch on the TV the way its supposed to be. On a sofa, in front of large TV with a remote with minimal buttons.
 
Thats where I invested this weekend. An old friend (from Dallas) was visiting us and he had figured out a simple way to push Kodi to Amazon firestick. Having a Roku, Apple TV and Chromcast at home, I was reluctant to bring home another device. On top, the only way to push apps to Firestick appears to be thru Android phone. That means all my iDevices are rendered worthless. Amit (friend from Dallas) obviously wanted to prove that Android is a superior choice. And label me iSheep :-)
 
Anyways, we drove to local Best-buy (in heavy rain). The firestick set up was swift. The smart TV devices have really come a long way. Apple TV, Roku and now FireStick sport beautiful on-boarding. The only hitch is typing  wifi password :-) I personally like Roku interface best as it doesn't promote its own media store whereas Apple pushes iTunes hard and Amazon is all about Prime content.
 
Amit used an app "complete Kodi set up" to set up Kodi and preferred add-ons. It took less than 10 mins to get us going. Goes without saying you can push apps from Google Play Store to Amazon FireStick (or TV) with your Android phone.

*Note for copyright and piracy advocates*, I pay for cable, Netflix, HBO, and Einthusan (an online streamer for Bollywood flicks).The apps interface on all the devices are different. Netflix on Apple TV looks lot different than that on Roku. I need to remember and type passwords and user IDs for each of them on every device. And I don't know what type of data each of these apps are collecting & where and how its being sold. Whereas on Kodi, I don't need a password. The only identification is my IP address which I can probably mask if I wish to. 

Yes , the experience of Kodi add ons is not as smooth as Netflix. But still its a lot easier that it used to be. I guess a new Kodi skin (Krypton) promises to do away all the interface issues. 

I think, Kodi  sure is worth a look (or relook). Wish, Apple and Roku make it easier for their users to add this as an App and there are more Kodi based devices available in market. 

